# Chen-Thompson-Project
Michelle Thompson and Zhiyuan Chen ENV 872 project

## Summary

This repository aims at analyzing the relationaship between CO2 emissions and quality of life worldwide. It contains raw and processed data, codes, and output. We used GLMs to study the effecets of population size, population density, development status on CO2 emissions in 2019 from the global perspective. Then, we used the same method to find out the impacts of CO2 emissions on quality of life  in 2019 from the global perspective. Finally, we used time series analysis to see the trend of US emissions over the past two centuries.
 
## Investigators

Michelle Thompson, Duke University, michelle.j.thompson@duke.edu
Zhiyuan Chen, UNC-Chapel Hill, zychen@ad.unc.edu 

## Keywords
CO2 emissions; quality of life

## Database Information
Raw Data:
[1]CO2_cleaned.csv
[2]QoL_Classes.csv
Source:
[1-2]The World Banks Atlas Method which uses individual countries' data reported to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and other international sources.
Date: Dec 9, 2022.

Processed Data:
[1]CO2_select.csv
[2]QoL_select.csv
[3]CO2_select_2019.csv
[4]CO2_QoL.csv
[5]CO2_QoL_dev.csv
Source:
[1-5]Generated by Michelle Thompson.


## Folder structure, file formats, and naming conventions 

The repository contains three folders:
[1]Data: csv files;
[2]Rmd: rmd files;
[3]Output: png files.

We named the rmd files with our names and dates. And we named the csv and png files with the key information that the files contained. 

## Metadata
CO2 Cleaned 
Variable	Description	Class	Units		
Country	Country names	Character	NA		
Code	Country-specific  code	Character	NA		
year	Year of CO2 emissions	Numeric	year		
Population 2022	Total population for country in 2022	Numeric	Number of people		
Area	Size of country	Numeric	km2		
X of World	Population of country in relation to world population	Character	%		
Density	Population density of country	Character	km2		
CO2 emission (tons)	Emissions of CO2 for the given country and year	Numeric	tons		

QoL Cleaned
Variable	Description	Class	Units
Rank	Rank of countries from highest quality of life (1) to lowest quality of life (137)	Numeric	NA
Country	Country name	Character	NA
Stability 15	Measure of stability, weighted 15%	Numeric	%
Rights 20	Measure of rights, weighted 20%	Numeric	%
Health 15	Measure of health, weighted 15%	Numeric	%
Safety 10	Measure of safety, 10%	Numeric	%
Climate 15	Measure of climate, weighted 15%	Numeric	%
Costs 15	Measure of costs, weighted 15%	Numeric	%
Popularity 10	Measure of popularity, weighted 10%	Numeric	%
Total Quality of life 100	Sum of all weighted measurements, total quality of life per country	Numeric	%
Rank 1	?? integer value of country’s rank, from 0-1	Numeric	NA
Ranking Class	?? integer value of country’s rank as classes	Numeric	NA

CO2_QoL_dev
Variable	Description	Class	Units
Country	Country name	Character	NA
DevStatus	Development status of a country	Character	NA
Year	Year of CO2 emissions	Numeric	year
Population.2022	Total population for country in 2022	Numeric	Number of people
Area	Size of country	Numeric	km2
Percent_of_World	Population of country in relation to world population	Character	%
Density	Population density of country	Character	km2
CO2_tons	Emissions of CO2 for the given country and year	Numeric	tons
Stability 15	Measure of stability, weighted 15%	Numeric	%
Rights 20	Measure of rights, weighted 20%	Numeric	%
Health 15	Measure of health, weighted 15%	Numeric	%
Safety 10	Measure of safety, 10%	Numeric	%
Climate 15	Measure of climate, weighted 15%	Numeric	%
Costs 15	Measure of costs, weighted 15%	Numeric	%
Popularity 10	Measure of popularity, weighted 10%	Numeric	%
Total Quality of life 100	Sum of all weighted measurements, total quality of life per country	Numeric	%
Quality of Life Definition(according to World Bank)
Total quality of life= 0.15(Stability) + 0.20(Rights) + 0.15(Health) + 0.10(Safety) + .15(Climate) + 0.15(Costs) + re 2).

## Scripts and code
1-Datavisualization is for reading in datasets and looking for variables that we are interested in.
Chen-Thompson-Final is a rough project draft.
ZhiyuanChen_Team_Assignment is a time series analysis file.
Chen-Thompson_ENV872_Project is a final project draft.


## Quality assurance/quality control
Documentation of changes
We retrieved data from reputable sources.
We checked that there are no missing values for key parameters and scanned for anomalous values.
